beta-0.4.0 changes (#798)
ROCm/roc-optiq: docs/index.rst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ROCm Optiq project is located is located at `https://github.com/ROCm/roc-optiq <https://github.com/ROCm/roc-optiq>`_.
```

- Baseline Comparison: Enables you to compare two workload measurements (baseline vs. target) side-by-side in a unified table. It helps to quickly spot regressions, improvements, and behavior changes. It highlights per-metric deltas (including percentage change) to make the performance impact easy to quantify. 
- Added support for ROCm compute profiler's database schema 1.3 and related performance improvements. 
- Presets: Save and recall pinned metric configurations for Table View and Baseline Comparison.
- New context menu to add metrics to Kernel Selection Table from Table View.
- Configurable delta-threshold control for Baseline Comparison.

Other new features: 

- Data clean-up: Enables the removal of metadata added by ROCm Optiq in a database file. 
- Command-line interface support. 
- OpenGL backend as a fallback when Vulkan is unavailable; optional software rendering path; command-line option to force a specific graphics backend. 
- Dear ImGui updated (docking-capable line, ImPlot aligned); Linux session defaults to X11 for compatibility. 

> - Microsoft Windows packages link GLFW statically by default (no separate ``glfw.dll`` in the installer). 

Reviewer 2: I would remove these two lines, the ImGui update, and GLFW dll details.  These are internal changes, the end user is not interested in these.

Author: Done

- New settings panel allowing keyboard shortcuts to be customized. 

Changed
-------

Changes in viewing analysis data include: 

- Roofline charts for Summary View and Kernel Details: The legend can be repositioned; aspect ratio follows the window; multi-workload chart fixes and top-kernels presentation updates.
- Kernel Details updates: Added mini-graphs in cells, pinned title/header improvements, and a global toggle for inline charts. Added a tooltip to display clipped names and adjusted the name-column sizing to free up space for metrics. 

Changes in viewing trace data include: 

- Topology View and Timeline:  
  
  - Enhanced System Topology tree for better representation of hardware and software topologies.  
  - Toggle on device nodes to show or hide all tracks under that device. 

Navigation and inspection:  

- Use **Go To Event** in tables and the **Flow Data** panel to go to a specific event. Double-click the event, or click **Go To Event** from the right-click context menu, to open the event on the timeline with vertical track centering and highlighted feedback.

> - Highlight-on-navigate with a dedicated event path, pulsing indicator, and timed auto-clear; selection and highlight handled independently.

Reviewer 2: Change to:
```suggestion
- Highlight-on-navigate with a dedicated event path using a pulsing indicator.
```

Author: Done

- Callstack experience improvements. 

Resolved issues
---------------

- Fixed an issue where metrics that reference ``None`` return N/A.
- Fixed an issue where ``workload_name`` is missing in ``sysinfo.csv`` when using ``--output-directory``. 

> 

Reviewer 2: These are not Optiq issues, but from the Compute profiler.  Optiq does not support an "--output-directory" parameter.  Either remove, or say something like as of 7.13 the Compute Profiler resolved the following issues which affected the metrics displayed in Optiq.

Author: Removed

  ROCm Optiq is in beta. Running production workloads is not recommended.

ROCm Optiq (Beta) 0.4.0 
=======================

Added
-----

New visualization features for analysis data include: 

- Summary View – Speed of Light: Provides an aggregated, system-level summary of key performance and hardware utilization metrics across all kernels, showing utilization relative to architectural peak capabilities. The Percent-of-Peak values help quickly identify whether the workload is limited. 
- Kernel Details - Kernel Selection Table: Added a bar chart visualization for values of metrics and a tooltip feature for displaying kernels' full names. 
- Baseline Comparison: Enables you to compare two workload measurements (baseline vs. target) side-by-side in a unified table. It helps to quickly spot regressions, improvements, and behavior changes. It highlights per-metric deltas (including percentage change) to make the performance impact easy to quantify. 

> - Added support for ROCm compute profiler's database schema 1.3 and related performance improvements. 

Reviewer 3: please add this at the end:
•	Presets: Save and recall pinned metric configurations for Table View and Baseline Comparison.
•	New context menu to add metrics to Kernel Selection Table from Table View.
•	Configurable delta-threshold control for Baseline Comparison.

Author: Done

Other new features: 

> - Data clean-up: Remove metadata added by ROCm Optiq in a database file. 

Reviewer 3: should we add this? Here we are saying we provide the flexibility, users can choose keep the metadata or remove it. If they want to remove, they use data clean-up.

Data clean-up: Enables you remove....

- Command-line interface support. 
- OpenGL backend as a fallback when Vulkan is unavailable; optional software rendering path; command-line option to force a specific graphics backend. 
- Dear ImGui updated (docking-capable line, ImPlot aligned); Linux session defaults to X11 for compatibility. 
- Windows packages link GLFW statically by default (no separate ``glfw.dll`` in the installer). 
- New settings panel allowing keyboard shortcuts to be customized. 

Changed
-------

Changes in viewing analysis data include: 

- The legend can be repositioned in the Roofline charts section of the Summary View and Kernel Details; it includes multi-workload chart fixes and top-kernels presentation updates. 

> - Kernel Details – Kernel Selection Table updates: Added mini-graphs in cells, pinned title/header improvements, and a global toggle for inline charts. Added a tooltip for displaying clipped names and adjusted the name-column sizing to free space for metrics. 

Reviewer 3: please change to:
- Kernel Details updates:

Author: Done

Changes in viewing trace data include: 

- Topology View and Timeline:  
  
  - Enhanced System Topology tree for better representation of hardware and software topologies.  
  - Toggle on device nodes to show or hide all tracks under that device. 

Navigation and inspection:  

> - Go-to-event behavior across tables, flow panel, and call stack panel. Double-click or context menu to open the event on the timeline, with vertical track centering and highlight feedback.  

Reviewer 3: please help to update this. The detail before was not quite accurate, only flow and tables have go-to-event, call stack doesn’t.

**Go To Event** behavior across tables and **Flow Data** panel, you can double-click or use context menu to open the event on the timeline, with vertical track centering and highlight feedback.

Author: - Multiple tables in the Advanced Details etc.
- When you want to go to any specific, event, you can right-click and go to event
- Navigate in the timeline

> - Highlight-on-navigate with a dedicated event path, pulsing indicator, and timed auto-clear; selection and highlight handled independently 

Reviewer 3: please add the following sentence as a new bullet after this:

Callstack experience improvements.

Author: Done

  ROCm Optiq is in beta. Running production workloads is not recommended.

> ROCm Optiq (Beta) 0.4.0 

Reviewer: This section is so long that you can't see the tiles below it. 
Makes it awkward 
Any thought on moving it below the tiles.

=======================

> Added

Reviewer 4: There seems to be inconsistent use of “-” and “:” for the items in this section.

Author: fixed

-----

> New visualization features for analysis data include: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New visualization features for analyzing data include: 
```

- Summary View – Speed of Light: Provides an aggregated, system-level summary of key performance and hardware utilization metrics across all kernels, showing utilization relative to architectural peak capabilities. The Percent-of-Peak values help quickly identify whether the workload is limited. 

> - Kernel Details - Kernel Selection Table: Added a bar chart visualization for values of metrics and a tooltip feature for displaying kernels' full names. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kernel Details - Kernel Selection Table: Added a bar chart visualization of metric values and a tooltip that displays kernels’ full names. 
```

- Baseline Comparison: Enables you to compare two workload measurements (baseline vs. target) side-by-side in a unified table. It helps to quickly spot regressions, improvements, and behavior changes. It highlights per-metric deltas (including percentage change) to make the performance impact easy to quantify. 
- Added support for ROCm compute profiler's database schema 1.3 and related performance improvements. 
- Presets: Save and recall pinned metric configurations for Table View and Baseline Comparison.
- New context menu to add metrics to Kernel Selection Table from Table View.
- Configurable delta-threshold control for Baseline Comparison.

Other new features: 

> - Data clean-up: Enables removal of metadata added by ROCm Optiq in a database file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data clean-up: Enables the removal of metadata added by ROCm Optiq in a database file. 
```

- Command-line interface support. 
- OpenGL backend as a fallback when Vulkan is unavailable; optional software rendering path; command-line option to force a specific graphics backend. 
- Dear ImGui updated (docking-capable line, ImPlot aligned); Linux session defaults to X11 for compatibility. 

> - Windows packages link GLFW statically by default (no separate ``glfw.dll`` in the installer). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Microsoft Windows packages link GLFW statically by default (no separate ``glfw.dll`` in the installer). 
```

- New settings panel allowing keyboard shortcuts to be customized. 

Changed
-------

Changes in viewing analysis data include: 

> - The legend can be repositioned in the Roofline charts section of the Summary View and Kernel Details; it includes multi-workload chart fixes and top-kernels presentation updates. 

Reviewer 3: @mattwill-amd this sentence doesn't sound correct to me. Please remove "The legend can be repositioned in the Roofline charts section of the Summary View and Kernel Details; it includes multi-workload chart fixes and top-kernels presentation updates." "It" here is ambiguous, "it" for legend is not true.

Instead, please add:
Roofline charts for Summary View and Kernel Details: legend can be repositioned; aspect ratio follows the window; multi-workload chart fixes and top-kernels presentation updates.

> - Kernel Details updates: Added mini-graphs in cells, pinned title/header improvements, and a global toggle for inline charts. Added a tooltip for displaying clipped names and adjusted the name-column sizing to free space for metrics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kernel Details updates: Added mini-graphs in cells, pinned title/header improvements, and a global toggle for inline charts. Added a tooltip to display clipped names and adjusted the name-column sizing to free up space for metrics. 
```

Changes in viewing trace data include: 

- Topology View and Timeline:  
  
  - Enhanced System Topology tree for better representation of hardware and software topologies.  
  - Toggle on device nodes to show or hide all tracks under that device. 

Navigation and inspection:  

- Use **Go To Event** in tables and the **Flow Data** panel to go to a specific event. Double-click the event, or click **Go To Event** from the right-click context menu, to open the event on the timeline with vertical track centering and highlighted feedback.
- Highlight-on-navigate with a dedicated event path, pulsing indicator, and timed auto-clear; selection and highlight handled independently.
- Callstack experience improvements. 

Resolved issues
---------------

> - Fixed issue where metrics that reference ``None`` return N/A.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where metrics that reference ``None`` return N/A.
```

> - Fixed issue where ``workload_name`` is missing in ``sysinfo.csv`` when using ``--output-directory``. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where ``workload_name`` is missing in ``sysinfo.csv`` when using ``--output-directory``. 
```
